So we can just breeze
through these two things so
we can get to writing some code.
But basically, just wanna go over some of
the useful internal modules that are out
there in Node.js that
we're gonna talk about.
And we can kinda just play around
with them, so let's do that.
So I've already talked about a little
bit of them, talked about fs.
This one's really cool,
this is one I think you start to realize
things are just really powerful.
So fs is a core internal
module that stands for
file system that allows you to do
all different types of things.
So I'm just gonna hit fs.,
can you show me some stuff?
There we go.
Okay, so you can see here,
I can read files, I can write files.
There's a lot of different things
you can do with the file system.
Pretty much anything you can do as
a human on your computer with files,
this thing can do in code, so
just think how powerful that is.
And you might even be thinking, yeah,
cool, I can open a file, I can look at it.
I mean you're writing code
right now to a file, so
this thing can also write code to a file
as well, so it can get very complicated.
If you've ever used something
like Create React App or
any starter template thing like that,
that's what they're using.
How do they write that
file to your file system?
Well, they probably use fs or
something like that, right, to write that.
So any time some program is writing
things for you, it's using fs,
so you can get pretty
complicated with this module.
So fs is a good one.
Another good one is
probably gonna be http.
So http is exactly what it sounds like.
It's just a module that helps
you with networking in Node.js,
not as low level as TCP, but
right above it with http.
So you would use this to make a server,
which we are gonna do today.
So you can make a server,
send back some JSON,
send back some images, send back a file,
or whatever, this is what http is for.
It's still pretty low level and
most people don't use this directly,
they use something on top of this like
a framework, but that's a really good one.
There's tons,
I could talk about this all day.
There's path, which people don't really
use anymore because they don't need to.
Yeah, so those are some
really good internal modules.
And then let's talk about npm, so this
one is really important to understand.
We've been using npm this whole time,
but I don't think we quite
understand what's going on here.
So I'm gonna head over to my terminal.
And npm just stands for
node package manager.
It manages your packages at Node,
that's really all it does.
So right now,
we've used it to link things and knit, but
we didn't use it to install anything.
So let's install some stuff with it,
it's actually quite simple.
All you have to do is type in npm install,
followed by a list of package
names you want to install.
So how do you know what packages you need?
There's this really cool tool called
Google, where if you type in npm and
then followed by the thing that you need,
there's probably a package for it.
Say anything,
I guarantee there's a package for it.
Just give me an example of something you
would wanna do in JavaScript, anything.
>> Parse EXIF data.
>> What is it?
>> EXIF.
>> EXIF, I bet there is something for it.
Let's see, there it is, exif-parser.
[LAUGH] There's one,
it was published six years ago.
So yeah, you'll come to the npm page here,
which tells you all the stats about it.
You get the link to the repo,
you can go check it out.
You see the repo was updated.
The last update was, yeah, five years ago.
So this one's probably outdated,
but that doesn't mean it's bad,
it's just it's not updated.
Here's the documentation for it.
More importantly,
here's how you install it.
So if we wanted to install this,
we could just say,
npm install, followed by that name,
exif-parser.
And it's gonna go download it and
install it, done, easily.
But where did it install it?
Well, hold on now, what is this?
We have this Node modules folder now,
this wasn't here before, this got created.
And the Node modules folder is the folder
in which all the things that you
download live.
They live in this folder now,
this is their home.
It also created a package-lock.json.
What is this?
This is a file similar to package.json,
but it basically locks in the versions
of all the things that we installed.
And this is useful, because if we're
working on the same team, we wanna make
sure we got the same versions of the same
modules, so this helps us ensure that.
And also when we deploy this to another
server, we wanna make sure that server
has the same versions of the same modules,
otherwise things might not work.
But you might be asking yourself then,
why don't I just include the Node modules
folder when I put this on GitHub or
on my machine,
and then I won't need this file because
the modules will already be here?
Okay, you never include
Node modules in Git.
The reason why is because if you
include Node modules to Git,
every PR you make is gonna be,
I don't know,
20 million changes cuz it's gonna look
at every single change in all that code.
And here's the thing,
you didn't write any of this code,
this code came off the Internet.
Why do you need this to
be checked in the Git?
Why do you want code
that you didn't write,
that's not part of your repo to be part of
your pull requests and your code reviews?
So it's really expensive,
you don't really wanna do that.
So that's why you have these files here
that list all the different versions of
all the dependencies that you installed so
it can just be replicated again.
So anyone on any machine
could just say install and
they'll get the same dependencies you
installed with the same versions without
you having to send those
dependencies in Git, right?
So typically, you would get
ignore the Node modules folder.
The other thing is in our package.json,
you'll notice is now we
have a dependencies object and
there's an entry for exif-parser.
There's also a version here,
but it's not an exact version.
This caret just means within this range,
so that's why we still have that
package.lock to ensure that it resolved
to a very specific version, which you can
see right here it resolved to this
version, so we'll always get this version.
No matter what computer we're on,
no matter what machine we're on,
we'll always get this version.
So that's what npm does.
And that's how simple it
is to install something.
You just npm install, or
even better you could just say, npm i, and
that'll do the same thing.
So now,
if I delete this Node modules folder,
I no longer have that thing installed, but
it's still in my package.json,
it's still in my package.lock.
So this is the equivalent of someone
else on my team installed some modules,
I just pulled it out for the first time so
I don't have those modules.
But these files do get checked into Git,
so
now all I have to do is to say,
npm install with no arguments.
And what it's gonna do,
it's gonna read these files and
go download all the dependencies for me.
So if I just do that with no arguments, it
went and installed the right thing anyway.
Yes.
>> Do you ever have to worry about
security with downloading
random npm installs?
>> There's been so many issues in
the past of really bad actors,
not even bad actors, just people.
For instance,
there was this one package that was used
by every other big package in the world.
It was something small, it changed
a string or something like that, and
it broke, all right?
This package broke and
it pushed up a broken change to npm, and
it broke the whole Internet
because the package was broken.
So everyone had to go patch that, because
this one little package was broken, right?
And then there are times when people
will push up malicious things and
you'll just install it and you won't know.
So yes, you do, and
if you work at a bigger company,
they're very serious about it.
You have to get things on a whitelist of
approved packages and stuff like that.
Sometimes attorneys are involved,
cuz of IP issues and stuff like that.
But for the most part,
I would say people are very careless,
they will just install things and
just it works, right?
And I think that's because there's a lot
of trust in the open source community that
if you publish something that's bad,
that's gonna look bad on you.
So the way that I do it is I'll go
Google something, I'll get on GitHub,
I'll check out their GitHub, right, and
then I'll just check out the activity.
I won't really look too
much into this person.
I mean, there are people who do a lot
of open source that I recognize and
that's all they do.
But I don't really care who the person is,
but I'll look at their activity,
I'll look at the issues.
If infact, it was bad, somebody might have
opened an issue here and they're like,
don't download this,
this is terrible, right?
So I'll do things like that,
just some slight research
can save you a lot of time.
But I'm definitely not going in here like,
let me look at this code and let me,
I'm not doing all that,
that's just too much work.
So yes, you will run into that.
It's more likely that you'll run
into something that's broken than
something that's malicious.
And that happens a lot, and that's
just because everything moves so fast.
It's a very good chance that something
is broken because people just
give up on these projects.
They'll make something, and in the moment,
it was cool, then they were just like, and
they'll just go work on something else,
and
not knowing there's a million
people relying on this thing.
And then it died because some new
version of Node came out and killed it.
So that's more likely, yeah.
Any other questions?
Nope, okay?
All right, yeah, so
that's npm, pretty simple.
And then you can uninstall things
by just doing npm uninstall,
followed by the thing that you wanna
uninstall, so in this case, exif-parser.
I can uninstall that and
it will remove it from my package.json and
remove it from my package.lock,
it no longer exists.
It also removed it from the Node modules,
so
that's how you would uninstall things,
cool.
npm also does other stuff, but 90% of the
time, you're just gonna do npm install.
That's all you're gonna be using it for
unless you're making packages,
which we're not gonna do in this course.